Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning in today's world we're going to walk through the
steps that are included in the process of training an hour and coater.
So let's get started here we've got an hour and quarter and obviously get some inputs and then we'll
get some outputs and Alcaeus will get input as input will get the ratings of lots and lots of users
for these six movies and based on those ratings it'll come up with a way to compress that information
and come up with those weights that will allow it to encode or to basically set itself up to be able
to then and coded and decoded in the future.
So here we go.
These are all training steps.
Step one we need to start with you Sarraf an area where the lines are correspond to users and columns
correspond to features the movies and each cell contains a rating from 1 to 5 0 if there's no rating
by that user.
So important to understand that every single row in your dataset is a unique user who rated those movies.
And by the way these steps will be very valuable for you when you are performing them.
Were you when you're doing a practical tutorials because you will be actually working with exactly this
situation.
You'll be creating a recommender system for movies.
Step two the first user goes into the network.
The input vector contains all its ratings for all the movies.
For all the ratings of that user for all of the movies.
Step 3 the input vector is encoded into vectors that have lower dimensions by a mapping function.
Usually you'd use a sigmoid or hyperbolic tangent as we mentioned and that's the question that you would
have.
Then Step 4 Zed is then decoded into the output vector of the same dimension as x aiming to replicate
the input vector.
So this is all pretty straightforward stuff.
The Reconstruction Era which is what how different is the output converts the input is computed.
And the goal is to minimize your reconstruction era and then all this era is back propagated from right
to left through your network.
And the weights are updated accordingly depending on how much they're responsible for that.
So you've got a gradient descent process happening there and the learning rate describes how much we
have the weights.
That's a parameter you can tune during your you will be chinning juror or you can choose.
During the coding and you will see that in the practical tutorials and Step 7 repeat steps 1 2 6 and
update weights after each observation.
That's reinforcement learning if it's done after each of the.
Or if you do it after batches they'll be Bachche learning and finally step 8 the whole training passes
through the neural network.
That's an epoch.
And then just redo more epochs.
So there we go those are steps.
Let's have a look in a more visual way so step 1 and that's our input.
In this case this input is those same file as we used for the bosome machine or same example in.
You can have ratings from 1 to five as we mentioned in Example 1 to 5 means basically more kind of a
more advanced recommender system and then a zero would mean empty.
In our case we were 1 0 and empty.
We can we can easily change it and we can change these one minus one and put a zero in the empty cell.
So it's very easy to adjust.
And also you can or you can build the recommended system with ratings with binary ratings 1 and 0 or
1 minus 1 depending on how you want to structure it.
It'll be a good recommender system but of course you'll be a more powerful recommender system if you
build it with a ratings from 1 to 5.
And in the practical tutorials good news you'll be building one with ratings from to.
OK.
So there we go that's our input then.
Step two we take the first row we put it into our out and quarter and then step three we calculate the
hidden nodes Vaya and again at the very start you'll have some randomly initialized weights.
Then that process called encoding.
Step 4 we're going to calculate all visible output nodes that can move.
Initially it'll be some randomly random starting weights and that's a process called Decoding.
And then.
So basically this is a summary chillul as a summary we've just put the information at the data through
our own code from left to right.
And Step 5 We're going to compare the results to the actual ratings for those movies where we want to
do five six.
And then we'll calculate the error Step 6 and then we will propagated back through the network.
We will adjust the weights accordingly.
And next we will take the next row in our data set and we'll do the same thing and so on and so on and
so on we'll continue through all the rows and then once we're done we move on to Step 8.
That means we've finished our whole airpark and then we just repeat these epochs we continue doing that
with our data set depending on how many times we want to do that.
And hopefully our training converges to some sort of value.
There we go that's how you train and hour and quarter are very straightforward steps.
And as I mentioned at the start of this section that simply because you've already done all of the previous
parts of this course all of this probably sounds very trivial to you.
If you look back at how you were starting out into this courses probably would have been a bit more
advanced but if this sounds trivial That's good news that just means that all of the knowledge that
you've acquired throughout the course before his benefiting you now.
And that's great that's why we were able to fly through this part very quickly and we can move on to
some more interesting things.
And by the way additional reading we've got some additional reading today.
Here is a blog by Francois I shall let the creator of care as it's called building our own code is in
Paris.
Check it out.
It's got some actual practical applications so even if you want to get some hands on experience before
you start the practical chores We've had lunch.
This could be a good place to do that.
There's some quick exercises which you can follow and get some cool insights already and then you'll
be even more prepared when you go into the practical tutorials.
So check it out.
It's called building up in Calder's in Cairns and that's it for today.
I look forward See you next time.
And until then enjoy learning.